---
title: Media I experienced in 2022
date: 2022-12-27
tags:
 - fhqwhgads
---

Over the year I took some notes on the games, hardware, and TV shows I
experienced. Here's the best and worst of what I experienced and some thoughts
on all of it. I hope you enjoy all these mini-reviews.

## Games I played

I know that I'm getting dangerously close to becoming a game reviewer here, but
here's some thoughts about my experiences playing through a bunch of good games
this year. These are in no particular order.

Originally I wanted to try and come up with some summary to what I think my
"game of the year" is. I can't do that. There have been too many fantastic games
that have either come out or come into my greasy mitts that I don't think I can
summarize the entire year into a single game like I have previously.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@cadey/109586858299858972"></xeblog-toot>

### Pokémon Legends Arceus

I wrote [a lot about this game in
March](https://xeiaso.net/blog/pokemon-legends-arceus-review-2022-03-07), but
honestly it's one of the best Pokémon games I've played in years. Pokémon as a
series has been a very stagnant affair. It really hasn't evolved very much over
the years and the mainline Pokémon games are just further attempts at refining
the vision they set out to meet in Red and Blue.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109583600146489858"></xeblog-toot>

Arceus is different. Arceus took a huge risk and actually _innovated_ on the
core formula. You aren't some kid that was selected by the professor or
whatever, you're some random teen that gets sucked into a temporal vortex by God
and ends up being the most proficient Pokémon trainer Hisui has ever known.
Arceus is closer to the vision of something like Pocket Monster Hunter. There
are big fields to explore in and completing your Pokédex takes more than just
catching them all. You have to interact with the Pokémon, feed them, and more to
really study them. I love it. It's easily a 9/10 game and if you're off put by
how Pokémon games have evolved over the years you should give it a try.

### Elden Ring

I've always loved the aesthetics and gameplay design of Dark Souls, but I've
never been quite good enough at the game in order to finish it. Dark Souls is a
very confusing game, and I'm pretty sure this is done intentionally to make the
player feel insignificant. You are an anonymous undead hero that wanders the
world with the hope of killing off the rulers of the world to reshape things in
your image. This game is actually a fairly decent metaphor for what it's like to
be openly trans in a workplace that claims to support diversity and inclusion
but doesn't actually take steps to actually be inclusive.

<xeblog-conv name="Cadey" mood="coffee">I was going to make a talk about this
whole Dark Souls as a metaphor for what really happens when diversity and
inclusion are either only given lip service or are not taken seriously, but I
may just produce it as a video for the blog site. The talk wasn't accepted at
any of the conferences I applied to with it. If the video ends up doing well I
may turn it back into a talk next year.</xeblog-conv>

Elden Ring hits the same way that Dark Souls does, except the player is given a
lot more freedom. You're still some nobody that gets dumped into the world with
a sword and a dream of becoming the Elden Lord. It's a fully open world game
complete with deep mechanical depth, dungeons to explore, and an absolutely
absurd number of bosses to fight. I love it so much, but I haven't taken the
time to finish it yet. I'm probably 90 hours in and I got past the fire giant
(oh god the fire giant was hard) and I hit a wall due to my build being a
squishy glass cannon mage build. They nerfed one of the strategies I was using
to take out bosses quickly (mixing magic attack up and temporary infinite FP),
and that completely destroyed the momentum of my run.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/1245620_20221226230636_1"></xeblog-picture>

Either way, I love this game. It's a perfect take on the Dark Souls formula and
I'm sure I'll come back to it to slowly chip away at things and claim the title
of Elden Lord. Just not any time soon, but that's okay. If it wins game of the
year, I wouldn't be surprised. It's highly acclaimed for a reason and I give it
a 10/10.

<xeblog-conv name="Cadey" mood="enby">It did actually win Game of the Year!
Congrats to the team, they did a good.</xeblog-conv>

I played this game on my gaming PC and my Steam Deck. It ran amazingly on PC,
but the Deck required some fiddling with settings. I ended up at 600p40 with FSR
enabled at sharpness 3. That gets you a nice smooth 40 frames per second which
isn't perfect, but more than enough for accurate gameplay.

### Kirby and the Forgotten Land

Kirby has always been near and dear to my heart. The Kirby series of games has
you play as a lackadaisical pink puffball that just wants to vibe with his
friends and eat sweets. You fight off universe-threatening bosses by _consuming
your enemies and stealing their powers for your own_ in an innovative power up
system. This series has been in a constant state of stagnation for many years. A
lot of the newer games were minor incremental changes to the core formula of
going to find the bad guy and shooting it until it dies. I'm not saying that
they were bad, Kirby games are always highly polished and _fun to play_; it just
gets a bit samey to do the same thing over and over with different universal
threats.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109587225045508785"></xeblog-toot>

Kirby and the Forgotten Land innovates on the Kirby formula by properly throwing
Kirby into the third dimension. Instead of being 3d models on a 2d plane,
Forgotten Land lets Kirby move in massive 3d stages in any direction you want.
It combines tight platforming, light puzzle elements, and the typical
collectathon gameplay in a new way that is lovely to play through.

<xeblog-conv name="Numa" mood="delet">So you're going to just skip over the fact
that Kirby is the reincarnation of the God of Death?</xeblog-conv>

<xeblog-conv name="Cadey" mood="angy">No, stop that, that will scare people away
from playing the game. Yes the Kirby series has traditionally focused on cosmic
horror being wrapped up in smiles as a mainly child-targeted series, but
Forgotten Land is a game that is much more targeted at core gamers. Though I'm
fairly sure that if you gave this game to a kid they'd have an absolute
blast.</xeblog-conv>

It's a 10/10 game. I'd say it's one of the best games I've played this year. It
looks gorgeous. Kirby has never controlled better.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109587224845384370"></xeblog-toot>

### Forza Horizon 5

I'm not really a racing game person, but I like to play Forza Horizon 5 with my
husband and some friends on Discord. We'll all hop into a voice chat and then
fire up Forza and just have some fun racing around and goofing off with cars.
It's good clean fun, and this time you get to do it in a beautiful
photorealistic environment that looks and _feels_ like Mexico should.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/1551360_20221227122142_1"></xeblog-picture>

Many racing games want to focus on the simulation aspect of driving, the
realistic impact of aerodynamics, or other things that I personally find kind of
boring. Forza Horizon games are all about the joy of doing stupid stuff with
cars. You can customize builds and tune things so that you can try to do things
better. Each type of car has its own quirks and overall it just _feels_ fun to
play.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/1551360_20221227122326_1"></xeblog-picture>

I don't really go out of my way to play it alone and I have to be in the right
mood to play it, but Forza Horizon 5 is one of the best games I've played this
year. It's nice and cozy. I'd give it a 8/10 rating with the caveat that I
really don't like racing games all that much. My husband loves it, so there's
that.

I played this game on my gaming PC and my Steam Deck. It ran great on both. No
settings changes were needed on the Deck.

### Xenoblade Chronicles 3

I've tried to write something longer about this game for the blog a few times
and I haven't really been able to end up with anything coherent. I'm going to
try to write something smaller this time: it's good. Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is
not only a technical showcase on the Switch, it's a _masterpiece_ in narrative
design, worldbuilding, music, and overall character design. It's one of the best
games Monolith Soft has ever put out. I'm going to be mostly focusing on the
gameplay aspects and avoid talking about the story to avoid spoilers. All story
content I talk about was in one of the first trailers for the games.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109583569501728880"></xeblog-toot>

You play as a bunch of weirdos that follow the former enemies now friends trope
and set off across the world after they get labeled as targets to everyone for
plot reasons. Every character has their own specialty class (swordfighter, twin
rings tank, DPS healer, ranged tactical healer, meathead tank, and giant hammer
user) and they all complement eachother perfectly. I could easily see that team
balance lasting the entire game without the game being horrible.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109583599804802439"></xeblog-toot>

However Monolith didn't stop there. They kept going. Every character can get
proficiency in every other character's class. When you meet hero characters in
the world, you can assume their classes as your own and mix them in to give the
combat system a lot of depth. Chain attacks are completely reworked and
hilariously tactical. The combat system is both more simple and more deep than
the one in Xenoblade 2, and I can easily see people finding ways to make it even
more elaborate as more DLC is released and discoveries are made.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109583569759228928"></xeblog-toot>

Other than that it's your standard jRPG. Fetch bread, slay archons. It's a 10/10
game, but I still think that Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is my favorite game in the
series. It's well worth playing if you are a fan of jRPGs polished to
perfection. There's not many game developers that will go to the level of
creating real-world functional replicas of in-game items to help them with the
worldbuilding and music writing process, and that level of attention to detail
_shows_.

<xeblog-conv name="Numa" mood="delet">bias much.</xeblog-conv>

It's a shame they got robbed of best music in the game awards. Not many music
teams will design their own instruments so they can use the unique microtonal
features of the instruments to their own advantage. This game is a must-play.

### Splatoon 3

Every major console has a Quake. Splatoon is Nintendo's quake. It is a
fast-paced multiplayer 3rd person shooter where you play as squid creatures and
your goal is to cover the ground with as much ink for your team as you can.
There's a huge varity of weapons to choose from and I'm pretty sure there's a
near infinite skill ceiling. I love Splatoon and Splatoon 3 does more of what
works with the the squid kids.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109583557980648763"></xeblog-toot>

One of the side modes in Splatoon is Salmon Run, a PvE mode where a team of 4
fights off hordes of Salmonids similar to CoD Zombies. One of the big things
they added was the ability to yeet eggs across long distances at the cost of
most of your ink tank. This _completely flipped Salmon Run on its head_ and has
made it my go-to game mode.

This game is really good. I love how it plays, how it feels and I want to see
more. I give it a 10/10.

### Stray

Oh to be a cat wandering around Kowloon walled city full of robots. Stray is one
of the more unique games that I played this year, and I really liked the time I
spent with it. Stray is all about immersing you into the life of a stray cat
wandering around an abandoned city full of robots. It is _gorgeous_, it looks
painterly and takes full advantage of Unreal Engine 4's lighting systems to
really _sell_ the idea of you being a cat in a cyberpunk city.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/1332010_20220719210057_1"></xeblog-picture>

I love how this game looks. I love how it controls. I just didn't love how it
felt like it wasn't really evolving the walking simulator genre beyond you
playing as a cat. Some of the "failure" scenes are kind of cruel looking.
Overall, this is a solid 8/10 game for me. It's a lovely experience but it's not
something you should really go back to more than once in a few years. It's a lot
like The Stanley Parable in that regard.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/1332010_20220719203754_1"></xeblog-picture>

Either way, the game knows what it is and does that really well. It's worth
playing if the cutscene about monsters attacking a kitty aren't too much for
you.

I played this game on my gaming PC. I am told it runs okay on Steam Deck, but I
didn't test it there.

### Super Metroid

I forget who said this, but one of the speed runners that my husband and I watch
said that Super Metroid is an acquired taste. Somehow I've managed to avoid
sitting down and playing through the whole game and after playing it to the end,
I can understand why people think that this is one of the best games ever made.
Super Metroid is one of my favorite games. It's very simple yet fair and
mechanically deep. It's earned its place on the high end of top 10 games lists
easily.

Super Metroid is Samus' third big adventure, this time she heads back to Planet
Zebes to finish off the Space Pirates for good. Through events that aren't
explained, she loses access to all of her power ups from Metroid II and delivers
the baby Metroid to Ceres station in the hope that its energy can help humanity
for peace. The Space Pirates want Metroids so they can take over the galaxy. The
space cops are not keen about this and they send in Samus to go wreck shit up
until the Space Pirates are no longer a threat. You explore Planet Zebes, fight
all the bosses, save or kill the animals, and overall have complete freedom in
the 2d sandbox to do whatever you want.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/Super_Metroid_Japan_USA_EnJa-220718-214018"></xeblog-picture>

There are sequence breaking tools like wall jumping, shinesparking, and infinite
bomb jumps that were intentionally programmed into the game. When I say that
it's a sandbox, I mean that you can literally defeat the bosses in any order you
want. Speedruns will usually do the bosses in _reverse order_. This gives
players an overwhelming sense of freedom and it easily allows for an infinite
skill ceiling and infinite replayability. 10/10 game, it's a must-play for a
reason.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/Super_Metroid_Redux-220721-175515"></xeblog-picture>

### Hyper Metroid

Super Metroid may be one of the best games ever made, but future releases in the
series have highlighted that there are severe ergonomics problems that can
easily be polished out of Super Metroid with only minor improvements on the game
itself. There's an entire rom hacking community for Super Metroid that works on
trying to see what they can do with the game and they push both it and the
hardware to their absolute limits.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/1118310_20221227134046_1"></xeblog-picture>

One of the most commonly used "project base" roms is called "Project Base" and
includes a bunch of ergonomic improvements from future games (such as the
ability to start spinning in the air if you hit the button again). Hyper Metroid
takes Project Base and built a whole new game on top of it. It just feels _so
good_ to play. Samus is responsive and shooting has never felt better.

There's the same Dramatic Personae in Samus, Ridley, Kraid, Drayghon, and
Phantoon; but the world and goals are completely remixed and flipped on their
heads. In vanilla Super Metroid your goal is to kill the bosses and then fight
Mother Brain, but Hyper Metroid places 15 Tourian gates around Zebes and you
must unlock them all in order to fight Mother Brain. Like Super Metroid you are
dumped into the world with absolute freedom and the game is _designed to allow
for sequence breaking_. I'm pretty sure that my casual playthrough had a few
accidental sequence breaks because I just wanted to see if I could get places.

One of the other big changes it makes to the Metroid formula is the ammo system.
Super Metroid normally has a few kinds of ammo for missiles, super missiles
(affectionately known as supers), and power bombs. You have to track the ammo
for each independently and this can lead to situations where you run out of
supers at the worst time. Hyper Metroid introduces a universal ammo system. When
you pick up a missile tank, you get 5 more ammo. Each missile uses 1 ammo to
fire, each super missile uses 10 ammo to fire, and each power bomb uses 15 ammo
to fire. This turns the resource management of Super Metroid on its head and
gives players a lot more freedom in how they handle encounters.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/1118310_20221227134823_1"></xeblog-picture>

I think this is a 10/10 game. It feels like it could have been made by the same
development team behind Super Metroid and overall it's well worth your time.
Metroid games have always been made as puzzles and Hyper Metroid delivers in the
world design department.

I played both this and Super Metroid with RetroArch using bsnes as the SNES
emulator. It ran like butter.

### Metroid Prime

I've somehow avoided playing Prime in the same way I avoided playing Super. This
was a mistake. Metroid Prime is a _seamless_ adaptation of the Super Metroid
formula to a 3D game. One of the big things that Metroid games in 2D do is give
you _complete freedom_ and set up a bunch of keys and locks. You need missiles
to open some doors, so you need to go find them and then you can get around to
many more doors left inaccessible before. The game has aged like fine wine and
I'm fairly certain that it could appease the appetite of modern gamers with only
minor touchups.

<xeblog-conv name="Cadey" mood="coffee">I tried to get screenshots of more than
the opening area, but the Steam Deck seems to have put those screenshots in
god-knows-where as jpg files. Please bear with me!</xeblog-conv>

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/14808306_20221227150446_1"></xeblog-picture>

I did play through Prime with Primehack, a fork of the Wii/GameCube emulator
Dolphin that adds the ability for Metroid Prime to be controlled like other
modern FPS games using a standard twin-stick setup. Playing it on my Steam Deck
has been _a blast_ and I easily get 4+ hours of batttery life on a single
charge.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/14808306_20221227150511_1"></xeblog-picture>

I understand why this is on peoples lists of all time best games. It is worthy
of all the praise it has gotten, it's a shame that Prime couldn't save the
GameCube from relative obscurity in the console market. It is a 10/10 killer app
that can only be relatively improved by minor tweaks such as having a normal FPS
control scheme (granted, this didn't exist at the time of Prime's release). I
can't believe that I didn't play it before this year. Don't make the same
mistake I did.

### No Man's Sky

I've tried to get into No Man's Sky a few times and it's just never stuck. When
I was bedridden with COVID in June, I fired it up on my Deck and vibed out with
it. It's a fantastic game and the team at Hello Games should be applauded for
how they're treating the game over the years. It launched as a barely functional
prototype and has been slowly refined into the game that the hype promised. It's
easily the best turnaround story in gaming history.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/275850_20221226225058_1"></xeblog-picture>

No Man's Sky is a universe-scale procedurally generated sandbox/exploration game
where you fly from system to system in search of the center of the universe. You
play as an anonymous traveler and are given a starship, a multi-tool, and a
dream. Every aspect of gameplay extends out from those basic three parts. You
can build your own base, manage a fleet of merchant ships, smuggle counterfeit
goods from pirate systems into freer parts of the universe, build the starship
armada of your dreams, and more.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/275850_20221226225302_1"></xeblog-picture>

It is quite possibly one of the biggest scale games I've ever played. The size
of the playable game world is so large that it's impossible for humans to
comprehend. We're talking on the order of 317,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 square
kilometers of playable space. The Milky Way galaxy has a radius of about 50,000
light years. If the entire world in No Man's Sky was mapped onto a single square
plane, one edge of that plane would be 0.06 light years long.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/275850_20221226225427_1"></xeblog-picture>

One of the only downsides to this game is that everything is procedurally
generated. This leaves things feeling a bit _samey_ across planets and systems.
If you've seen one volcano planet, you've largely seen them all. The game tries
to compensate for this with alien ruins being scattered across the universe with
tales of fallen civilizations and universal decay, and I think they do a good
job with this.

I'd give No Man's Sky a 9/10. It's multiplayer leaves a lot of room for
replayability. Community expeditions give you a lot of freedom to explore with
more explicit goals. It runs perfectly on the Steam Deck and gets you hours of
battery life. I'd be willing to recommend it if you want to vibe out and have a
good time.

### Pokémon Sword

I have been a Pokémon fan for a very long time. The first game I played was
Pokémon Diamond on the Nintendo DS in middle school. I easily put 200 hours into
that game. It not only introduced me to the world of Pokémon, but it also gave
me the freedom to explore and handcraft a team to my exact demands.

When Sword was annoucned, one of the things they mentioned was that the game
would not have all 800+ Pokémon at release. This scandal was later called
"Dexit" (in reference to Brexit because Sword was set in a Pokémon world version
of England), and that scandal's social media outrage cycle made me avoid the
game entirely.

This was a mistake.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109371225744806341"></xeblog-toot>

Pokémon Sword reminded me of all the thigns I love about the more "classic"
Pokémon formula. You are some kid who gets battle monsters and is told to go
save the world. The art is crisp and has this lovely anime shader to it.
Everything feels internally coherent and it runs _so well_ on the Switch. It
makes me forget that the Tegra X1 chip is almost a decade old as I immerse
myself into the world of Pokémon.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109388278313080789"></xeblog-toot>

One of the major weaknesses of the game was that it didn't bring much new to the
table. It mostly was an incremental evolution of the core Pokémon games on the
3DS. I suspect that this game was originally intended as a 3DS game but hastily
ported to the Switch after hearing that the 3DS was getting axed. However, by
being so derivative, it allows you to just focus on the game and bring your past
experiences to the table so you can explore the world of Galar to your heart's
content. Dynamaxing was super dumb though.

Sword also introduced Wild Areas, which I believe are the future of the series.
In Wild Areas you can run around and see Pokémon in the world around you. You
have full camera control and fighting a wild Pokémon starts with you walking up
to it and harassing it. This allows you to _avoid battles you don't want to
fight_ and avoid having to game the RNG to avoid it rolling an encounter for
you.

Overall, this game is _fantastic_ and it's exactly what I want out of a Pokémon
game. It's the kind of game that is best enjoyed with a warm coffee and while
under a blanket on the couch. It's very cozy and I love it so much for that.
It's a 9/10 game, could be a 10/10 game if the entire game world was a Wild
Area.

### Pokémon Violet

Pokémon Violet was the _big ticket release_ for Pokémon in 2022. It is the next
generation of Pokémon and they took a lot of the ideas of Legends Arceus
combined with the Wild Areas from Sword and Shield and then delivered a truly
open world experience. When you fight wild Pokémon, you do it _in the open
world_. You fight traines _in the open world_. You can run around, fly on your
bicycle, and more. You can even play with your friends co-op with the Union
Circle, allowing my husband and I to truly play this game _together_, not just
adjacently in the same room.

When you are playing together with the Union Circle and exploring together,
version-exclusive Pokémon will show up around you. My husband has Pokémon
Scarlet and one of the Pokémon you can't catch there is Bagon (a dragon
Pokémon). When we adventure together, he can catch Bagon and all the other
version-exclusives. This eliminates the need for a lot of random trading and we
love the results.

I didn't mention it above, but Pokémon Sword and Shield introduced Raid Battles,
which let you fight against a more powerful than usual creature in a
many-against-one fashion. Violet takes this further with Tera Raid battles,
which not only have music by Toby Fox (yes, the Undertale Toby Fox), but also
let you get a _guaranteed catch_ for the Pokémon you are fighting. This can help
you clean out the remainders of your Pokédex that you just can't find in the
open world.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109390898064213862"></xeblog-toot>

Every Pokémon game has a gimmick, and this one lets you _change the type of your
Pokémon mid-battle_. This adds an entirely new layer to the Pokémon metagame and
I can't wait to see how people abuse that for fun and profit. I'm already
starting to plan out a competitive team.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109365757807939518"></xeblog-toot>

Violet is also a lot more refined than past Pokémon games. Items that you need
to train your Pokémon to competitive status are all in one store for fairly
cheap instead of spread out over the entire world. Every Pokémon center has a TM
machine and a Poké Mart, and they are littered around the world such that one's
always nearby. All of the dead time in other Pokémon games has been
_eliminated_, even moreso than with Arceus.

I would love to say that this is the game of the year and probably the best
experience you can have with Pokémon, but I can't. There are huge performance
and graphical issues that intrude into the core game flow. There's some kind of
memory leak that means you need to restart the game every few hours to avoid the
game chugging down to 15 FPS or worse. Some of the late game cutscenes can run
at slideshow paces.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109368310013234498"></xeblog-toot>

It really makes me wonder what Pokémon games could look like if they targeted
the PS5, PC, or Xbox consoles instead. The Tegra X1 that powers the Nintendo
Switch is a very capable and versatile chip, but you need a lot of care and
optimization put into development to really make it shine. Pokémon Violet
doesn't have that level of polish and it sadly shows.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109371148337126374"></xeblog-toot>

Personally I wish there were more outfit options than school uniforms, but that
may have been a compromise made in development to make the deadline.

I absolutely love what they are doing with Scarlet and Violet, they are taking
the series in the right direction. However, the presentation leaves a lot to be
desired. I can ignore grapical issues up until they interfere with the core game
loop. Scarlet and Violet do a bad job of hiding the fact that they are running
on an underpowered Tegra X1 chip. I have to give it a 7/10 as it is right now,
but with significant performance improvements it could easily be a 9/10 or 10/10
game.

## Hardware I picked up

I managed to pick up some fun hardware this year. I was gonna write more about
each of these, but I guess this has become a bit of an omnibus post with a whole
bunch of details about a bunch of things I did in 2022. Soooo I'm gonna just
roll with it and talk about some of the hardware I picked up!

### PS5 (disc drive)

When I moved to Canada, I brought my PS4 Pro with me. This ended up becoming the
tool that my husband and I used to watch YouTube with while eating dinner at
home. After finally getting my hands on a PS5 after trying for a year, it's
now...the tool that my husband and I use to watch YouTube with while eating
dinner at home.

<xeblog-toot url="https://pony.social/@withinscreenshots/109564109317450120"></xeblog-toot>

One of the Youtubers I follow named Pyrocynical has gotten a lot of flak since
the PS5's release by saying that the PS5 has no games. Honestly, I have to agree
with him. There are not really that many compelling PS5 games that aren't going
to make their way to PC anyways (probably as a defense against people writing
emulators).

Overall it's a great bit of kit, but as a hardcore gamer I really have my gaming
hardware needs met by my Nintendo Switch, Steam Deck and gaming PC. It's a good
console, it just needs good exclusives that I can't get a better experience with
on PC.

<xeblog-conv name="Cadey" mood="enby">Until then it's a great YouTube and Plex
client for the living room!</xeblog-conv>

### Steam Deck

The Steam Deck is a handheld PC that runs Arch Linux and Steam games. It is a
phenomenal device and I do not regret my purchase in the slightest. I bought the
512 GB model and popped a 512 GB microSD card in it. I currently have 60 games
on it and about 100 GB of space free.

Soem newer games will need a bit of configuration tweaking to get the best
experience, but you can usually search the name of the game on
[/r/SteamDeck](https://reddit.com/r/steamdeck) or
[ProtonDB](https://protondb.org) and get help making games work.

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/Screenshot_20221226_225624"></xeblog-picture>

It's a hackable Linux system that plays games _really well_. If you want a
device that you can use to play Dwarf Fortress, Sonic Adventure 2, or any of
your other Steam games on the go, you can't go wrong with a Steam Deck. If you
travel a lot for work, this is going to become a _vital_ travel companion. I've
been seeing if I can get away with making a high-tier Steam Deck issued to new
people on the DevRel team at work. I haven't succeeded at doing this yet, but I
may just be able to get away with it!

<xeblog-picture path="blog/2022-media/homescreen"></xeblog-picture>

It's one of the best purchases I've ever made. Half of the PC game screenshots
were made with my deck.

### Nintendo Switch OLED

I've had a launch model Nintendo Switch since the switch launched. That thing
has easily gotten a few thousand hours of playtime under its belt and I've worn
out 3 pairs of Joycons with it. I love the hell out of the Nintendo Switch and
absolutely love what the development teams Nintendo hires can do with it.

From what I am told, the Switch OLED was supposed to be a spec bump to the
platform. Then COVID and the chip shortage happened, so the spec bump didn't
happen. The OLED screen is absolutely gorgeous though. Colors pop and dance
across the screen. Black and white have _lovely_ contrast that I don't really
expect to see on anything but my iPad Pro or my work MacBook Pro. It is a
premium device and I love the hell out of it.

It's very iterative of the basic Nintendo Switch formula, but the battery life
increase is really nice. My old switch has seen enough charge cycles that the
battery is starting to not be as fresh as it once was, so a new device where I
can get 4 hours of battery playing Breath of the Wild or Xenoblade Chronicles 2
is very welcome.

The Switch OLED is a worthy upgrade. I just hope we get an actual spec bump
soon. It would be cool to see if a higher clock speed at a better process could
make games like Pokemon Violet play a lot smoother.

## Visual Media I watched

Fair warning: I watch a _lot_ of anime. There will be a lot of anime in this
list. You have been warned.

### Leadle no Dachi Nite

This started out as a generic fantasy Isekai in the vein of Sword Art Online
except the bedridden protagonist dies while in the VRMMO and ends up trapped
inside it. The event made the VRMMO get scrapped. The protagonist ends up
adventuring through the fallen remains of the MMO world and they never really do
anything useful with it. Overall it was a waste of my time to watch it. There
were parts that were cute, but it is obviously either wish fulfillment on the
part of the mangaka or trying to tell a story that the show runners couldn't
make work. 4/10, the animation was fluid, but the story was just so terrible. If
you are trying to tell a story, it helps to have something to tell in the
process instead of trying to ride the coattails of a more successful story.

### Reincarnated as a Sword

The isekai genre has been _really crowded_ as of late. All of the "normal"
scenarios have been done to death. People have been reincarnated into VR games
so many times. People have been reincarnated into so many weird places (there's
even one where someone reincarnates into the body of a succubus with an
addiction to drinking cow's milk) and the genre is saturated to the point that
it gets boring.

Reincarnated as a Sword is an anime about someone who...reincarnates as a sword.
I really liked reading the manga over the last few years and I'm happy to see it
get the treatment it deserves on the anime stage. I like it, but I could see how
people would hate how wish fulfillment/mary sue/toneless and bland it can be at
times.

It's a 7/10 anime. Very good technical production, the story falls a bit flat;
but it's an isekai about a dude reincarnating as a sword. Fran is even more of a
bean in anime form. It's a conflicted anime but it manages to avoid being an
outright mess.

### Management of a Novice Alchemist

There are some animes that I don't really know how to categorize other than
calling them _cozy_. Management of a Novice Alchemist is a cozy anime. It's
about a novice alchemist named Sarasa that tries to establish her alchemy
practice in a small town and protect the town from various problems.

Sarasa is a heccin bean and even though there is a pretty predictable episodic
story arc, the Japanese is very clearly enunciated and doesn't contain too many
difficult words. I've been taking notes while watching it to build up more
vocabularity in my eternal mission to not need subtitles.

Overall, this is the kind of cozy level that you get drinking a warm mug of
coffee under a blanket while listening to lo-fi hip hop beats to relax/study to.
I give it a 7/10.

### My Dressup Darling (Sono Bisque Doll)

I must be getting old because romantic comedy anime is starting to become one of
my favorite subgenres. My Dressup Darling is about the romance between Marin
Kitagawa, a budding cosplayer gyaru that has absolutely no ability to sew or
cook at all and Wakana Gojo, an apprentice seamstress for [hina
dolls](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hinamatsuri).

It's an absolutely adorable show and I think it's well worth watching. Hijinks
ensue as the two spend time together and each really is well written to balance
their unique talents. It feels like this was written by someone who
_experienced_ this kind of relationship with someone and wanted to retell that
story in a modern setting.

This is a must-watch 10/10 anime. It's adorable, cheezy, and overall a solid
romantic comedy that I can't wait to see more of. I'm going to attempt to buy it
on bluray just to keep on my shelf. Cloverworks does waifu anime properly.

### Spy x Family

This is another adorable anime about a family consisting of a spy, an assassin,
and a telepathic child. It's set in an analogue to the cold war and none of the
main characters knows that the others are what they are. It's absolutely
adorable and Anya is a bean that is precious beyond words.

I could try and describe it some more, but I feel that is a waste of time. It's
good. Watch it. 10/10.

### Sabikui Bisco

I thought that Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann was going to be one of the few animes
that I ever see that made me have _feels_. Sabikui Bisco has an absolutely
batshit premise and manages to build it into one of the best animes of the year.

In this world there was some nonspecific war that resulted in rust becoming able
to affect humans and spread virally. Humanity is succumbing to the scurge of the
rust virus and it slowly pecks away at their numbers. The existing medical
systems make _absolute bank_ on treating the rust virus' effects on people
though, so you can see the completely understandable systemic problems that
would emerge unfold in front of you.

Then the main character buys mushrooms off the black market and gets entangled
with a mycologist archer and they sent out to save Japan from the rust virus.
Bisco and Dr. Panda set out on the back of a giant friendly crab named Actagawa
and uncover the truth of the rust virus, investigate rumors of a mushroom that
cures the virus, and overall save the populace from themselves.

I love it so much. My descriptions here are not doing it anywhere near justice.
It's a 10/10 anime and I can't suggest watching it more.

### The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power

This show was okay. I really didn't like how the elves spoke the wrong language
(it's like going around Rome and having casual conversations in liturgical
Latin), they should be speaking Sindarin, not Quenya. They adapted things from a
few paragraphs at the end of the Silmarillion, and oh god it shows.

They really made a mistake not starting out as _strong_ as possible, but they
were trying to literary style of Tolkien's subtle worldbuilding feeding into the
plot feeding into the worldbuilding. This works _great_ in printed media but not
really in a TV series where they only have 15 hours to get across the vision.

There were at least 6 threads of plot that started to weave together in new and
confusing ways. Eventually they did settle down to 3 plot threads, but a lot of
the plot threads felt rushed. I don't know how they managed to make a 15 hour
series feel rushed, but they did. It's kind of an impressive achievement.

The thing that saved it for me is the _art style_. They took the instructions
"make it look like The Lord of the Rings movies" and NAILED it. It looks
_immaculate_. I love how it just _feels_ like the classic movies. There is style
and charm oozing from every crevice of the visual presentation. The people
working on this care about and love The Lord of the Rings and it _really shows_.
It's worth study from a filmography standpoint. I can't figure out how they did
some of the practical effects and I think they're doing them mostly practical.
It has that feel that you get with practical effects.

Overall I'd say this is a 8/10 show. I was expecting a lot worse. It's worth
watching, but if you are a super LOTR nerd you may not like it very much. Just
be warned that the first two episodes are kinda rough.

### Morbius

I saw Morbius this year. I don't really know what to say about it because it
seems to have an anti-memetic effect on me. I can't really name any solid events
that happened in the movie. I know that Morbius morbs, but overall the actual
events are hazy even for people that saw the movie multiple times. It's really
not a very good movie.

<xeblog-conv name="Cadey" mood="coffee">For extra credit, if you've seen Morbius
this year, email me with what you think is a summary of what happened in it. No
cheating, I'll know if you cheat.</xeblog-conv>

It's also kind of a technical achievement because they managed to make a horror
movie about a vampire boring. I don't even know how you do that. The characters
are so forgettable that the only reason I know Dr. Micheal Morbius' name is
because of memes about it being morbin' time. It's quite something when Twitter
shitposts have more cultural impact than the thing they are shitposting about.

It's a 4/10 movie. Not really worth watching unless you have friends. And drugs.
Lots of drugs. You will need them. I saw it sober and that was a MISTAKE.

---

What did you experience in 2022? Take the year in retrospect media challenge and
write up your own article like this! Just be sure to tag it with #fhqwhgads so I
can find it!
