---
title: "Site Update: Salary Transparency Page Added"
date: 2022-06-14
author: Sephie
---

<xeblog-hero file="miku-dark-souls" prompt="hatsune miku, elden ring, dark souls, concept art, crowbar"></xeblog-hero>

I have added a [salary transparency
page](https://xeiaso.net/salary-transparency) to the blog. This page lists my
salary for every job I've had in tech. I have had this data open to the public
for years, but I feel this should be more prominently displayed on my website.

As someone who has seen pay discrimination work in action first-hand, data is
one of the ways that we can end this pointless hiding of information that leads
to people being uninformed and hurt by their lack of knowledge. By laying my
hand out in the open like this, I hope to ensure that people are better informed
about how much money they can make, so that they can be paid equally for equal
work.

Raw, machine processable data (including employer names) is available at
`/api/salary_transparency.json`. The JSON format is not stable. Do not treat it as
such. I reserve the right to change the formatting or semantics of the JSON
format at any time without warning. The raw data is in `/dhall/jobHistory.dhall`
in my site's git repository.

I have also taken the time to make sure that the [old
post](https://xeiaso.net/blog/my-career-in-dates-titles-salaries-2019-03-14)
maintains an up-to-date list. I do not want to break semantics on my website
without a very good reason. By leaving the old post un-updated, I feel it would
be doing a disservice to the community.

Please consider publishing your salary data like this as well. By open,
voluntary transparency we can help to end stigmas around discussing pay and help
ensure that the next generations of people in tech are treated fairly. Stigmas
thrive in darkness but die in the light of day. You can help end the stigma by
playing your cards out in the open like this.

It can be scary to do this; however every person that does it will make it that
much more easy for the next person to do it.

Don't be afraid.
